KH say is a Palestinian political
analyst who learned of his father jerice
se's death earlier today his father was
among others Sheltering at the Holy
Family Catholic Church in Gaza and he
joins us live now from Washington DC uh
first of all um our our deepest
sympathies to you and your family uh
over the death of your father and uh we
thank you for uh talking to us at this
difficult time
can you um tell us first of all about
the circumstances of what happened here
and how you how you learned of your
father's
death yeah thanks H for having me and
thanks for adding this context today in
the morning I just received a call from
my cousin who's in ramala telling me
have you talked to your parents today
and me saying no but I think they're
okay because I heard yesterday that the
snipers that were around the church that
shot down two of the women uh at the
church who were killed and others who
were wounded are no longer there and I
felt that it's more safe and then she
said I hate to break it down to you but
your father passed away your father
wasn't able to be transported to a
hospital when his health has deterred
and us your father died it was uh very
hard to hear that but even more hard
that I wasn't for hours uh able to even
know what happened to my father due to
the lack of connection with Gaza and the
cell phone services and I had to really
waitting hours just to know if my father
was buried or not how did he die and the
circumstances of surrounding his death
so from what you're saying there there
was an opportunity for your father to
get treatment for his injuries but
because of the the insecurity there he
he never got that
chance yeah for sure for the last two
days the Israeli Army has completely
besieged the church haunted down two
women who were killed on the spot and
and one did another seven people who
tried to um uh uh hold or carry these
two woms from within the comound of the
church as Pope Francis himself also
referred to the incident so there was an
opportunity to not only save my father
who his health has been deterred in the
last two days that yet they find no
hospitals or ambulances but also there
are seven people who are wounded in the
church since 3 days and they're still
bleeding without any medical um uh care
and we are afraid at least that one of
these people at the church as I heard
today from the priest that they will she
will pass away as
well uh and while this is something that
has uh affected you
personally I know because we we we
introduced you as a as a political
analyst and and and and someone who
studies Palestinian politics how how
should we view this in the context of
the the The Wider
conflict it seems that there is very uh
uh intentional um uh Israeli uh policy
of uh making sure the Palestinians don't
get the things they need whether it's
food or medical attention or even access
to hospitals uh the way we understand it
and the way we look at it is that there
is an an an Israeli attention and policy
to push the Palestinians out of the Gaza
Strip they want to ethnically cleans the
Gaza Strip they want to reoccupy Gaza
fully and the more they make the
humanitarian catastrophe worst in Gaza
the more it is likely that people would
leave from from gaza's strip so now
giving that Egypt has closed the border
and giving that Egypt did not allow
Palestinians to leave from Gaza I think
that the Israelis are sort of um still
confused on what what's the next step
but yet they they never change these
policies there's no other explanation
for why there is not even one
functioning Hospital in the north of
Gaza except that there is an attempt to
ethnically cleanse or there is a
potential even genocidal intentions
there so there is no another way as far
as I'm concerned analytically beside
that the Israelis don't want to see
Palestinians continue to continue living
in
G can I ask you KH um when was the last
time you you spoke to uh your father
and um how did he how how did he feel
about what was happening
there yeah the truth is I couldn't speak
to him for the last few weeks because of
the lack of self Services uh the uh
painful part is uh my communication with
my family since they moved to the church
after the bombing of our house toward
the very beginning of the war has been
through just the word of mouth of
hearing from other people and all what I
was waiting for every day is someone to
tell me I talk to someone at the church
your family is alive literally that's
the only thing I'm waiting for every day
but how does my father feel about the
situation knowing my father having spent
um uh time with him and talking to him
about it he's a very peaceful person
he's not a person of War he does not
believe in war he always told me and
taught me that you should be like Christ
you should forgive others you should
forgive even your enemy and even love
your enemy you should uh seek peace and
I knowing my father who would be against
this war he would be even against the
Hamas a horrific attack in October 7th
and he would be someone that sympathizes
with civilians both Israelis and
Palestinians thinking and saying all the
time that everyone is created in the
image of God well father sounds like a
wonderful man and um we appreciate you
talking to us about him and uh our uh
our deepest sympathies to you and thank
you so much for talking to
us thank you
h